# CMS-Hospital-Star-Rating-Prediction
I am analyzing what aspects of the patient experience are most predictive of CMS Hospital Star Ratings. Do some aspects of the patient experience have a cascade effect on other performance measures that CMS uses to make its star ratings? Should hospitals focus on a specific side of the patient experience to improve its rating? My goal is to create a model that is more interpretable for medical consumers and providers. Kurian, Nisha, Jyotsna Maid, Sharoni Mitra, Lance Rhyne, Michael Korvink, and Laura H. Gunn (2021) wrote a paper in the Healthcare Journal "Predicting Hospital Overall Quality Star Ratings in the USA" discussing issues with the interpretability and instability of the CMS Star Rating model loading coefficients, especially with highly collinear performance measures. The paper developed an ordinal logistic regression using a group of hospital performance measures from the CMS Star Rating model and offered a more direct measurement of the effect an increase in a specific performance measurement would have on the odds of a hospital being rated 5-stars. The focus of my project is look specifically at the patient experience, which Kurian, Nisha, Maid, Mitra, Rhyne, Korvink, and Gunn were not able to properly quantify in their model, through HCAHPS survey data. I also take a different modeling approach for predicting the CMS Hospital Star Ratings that out performs ordinal logistic regression in out-of-sample testing and offers more precise interpretability for hospitals in certain rating grups.
